---
layout: about
title: Mission
---

Like all academic subjects, (neuro)science is a global discipline. Fruitful research and scientific progress fundamentally depends on academic exchange between peers.

In particular the Western nations boast a long standing tradition of scientific research and education, with the vast majority of top-ranked publications originating outside of Africa. African science is rapidly catching up, however, knowledge is often poorly exchanged between African and Western researchers. Limited resources to attend conferences and often costly journal subscriptions limit African scientists' ability to follow the latest developments in Western research.

The first factor is especially important because even when African researchers have access to international journal publications, they receive this information with a significant delay with respect to its Western peers who often exchange new knowledge and ideas during conferences. At the same time, regional publication outlets and language barriers frequently render findings and research agendas from African academia unavailable to Western researchers. Moreover, African and Western researchers have easy access to different samples, materials and patient groups, and bring unique perspectives about implementation and sustainability of research to the table.

Our approach builds upon a combination of academic research collaboration, an exchange of knowledge and access to resources, and the establishment of personal relations and networks connecting African and the West. This project is intended to:

1. keep Western (neuro)science sensitive to the needs and discoveries of African research
2. improve African researchers' access to the latest knowledge and techniques in mainstream research
3. broaden the research area toward a truly cooperative approach to research, combining the different strengths and interests of African and Western research
4. help integrate African scholarship into the global science debate, and facilitates African researchers' efforts to establish themselves in the global science community.
